# shareity

This is a social media website focused on displaying content related to charities, volunteering, giving etc. The website will have public users viewing the website and will display content from users of the website who have public visibility on their posts. Public users will see various posts displayed in chronological order from when they opened the website. Users that are signed up with the site will have the advantage of seeing personalized content, such as content from their friends and people they are connected with on the website. A lot of people don't typically donate to a cause or partake in volunteering efforts unless they have incentive to do so; that incentive can be anywhere from personally being impacted or having loved ones impacted or having mandated volunteer hours. The purpose of this website would be to heighten the incentive for philanthropy that everyone has in themselves, and incentivize people to do good by adding a social media aspect. The more people that use the site, the more people will see that so many people are helping out with various causes, and maybe they should too.

The human users for this domain will be helpers (people that want to participate in philanthropy efforts), planners (organizations that sign up with the website and create challenges for the users. Challenges can be ones like the ice bucket challenge where helpers will tag their friends in it and the tagged friends have a set amount of time to complete the task or will have to donate x amount of money), donators(people that want to donate to specific organizations) and anonymous users.

The domain objects for this project will be charities that can be donated to, organizations that need volunteers, and wishes. The website itself will also allow users to have a profile that has wishes that the user has. The wishes can be such things like "I want to alleviate hunger" or "I want to eradicate poverty." Based on the wishes that user puts down on the profile, they will be prompted to results from a charity API that provides ways for that user to help out. The wishes then have a relationship with charities and organizations; the wishes will help determine the search results on the page. The charities or looking to fulfill the wishes, as are the organizations.

The helper would be able to accomplish numerous things. They will be able to search for charities based on their interest, pinpoint what their most important wishes are, and post what they do (ex. "I'm volunteering at x place starting tomorrow!") and progress made toward their wishes publicly or just to friends. The donator will be able to search for organizations based on their wishes, pinpoint what their most important wishes are, and post what they do (ex. "I just donated x amount to y charity!") and progress made toward their wishes publicly or just to friends. Planers will be able to post challenges, tag users, and search/add friends. On their dashboard the helper, donator, and planner will see their friends' recent activities of donation or volunteering and can like or comment on those posts. They'll also be able to search for friends based on like wishes and add them. Helpers and donators can participate in challenges posted planners and all three users can become friends and create wishes.
